I agree with the theory that grades should reflect mastery of content rather than behavior. I disagree that in practice this is a workable philosophy, at least without other major changes in education. The speaker quotes anti-racism writer Ibram X. Kendi on his thoughts that we have created structures because we believe people of color to be not capable of certain things, and he compares grades that encourage students to do the work to this type of situation. He claims there is research proving that without completion grades (as they are known in my school), students will still do the work. That to me is utter nonsense. Children, in particular teenagers, have a tendency to push boundaries. They experiment to see what is the LEAST amount of effort they can get away with. This applies for both “good” and “bad” students - I do it myself! Younger people tend to think more short-term and not recognize the bigger picture, so yes they may know in the back of their heads that doing a short assignment will help them do better on a summative 3 weeks down the line, but the pull of friends/video games/social media and other short-term pleasures will often prove to be stronger than their desire for long-term success. I have done my own research - I gave students guided notes to complete this year, and I meant to grade them for completion but forgot. Some students did complete the notes, and it showed on their exam performance, but most did not. Of course there will be exceptions to this, students with exceptional maturity who can understand how every piece of work they are asked to do for a class contributes to the whole of their learning. Listening to this podcast made me doubt whether the speaker actually worked with real teenagers, even though he claims to be a former high school teacher, or whether he spent most of his career at a place like Stuy, where the majority of students had a long-term mindset and good academic habits, rather than an typical inner-city public school.

I can implement in my classroom some separation of behavior from content mastery. My school requires separate behavior grades called ABROWS and this is where I deduct points for lateness, attendance issues, late assignments, etc. This way if a student hands in an assignment late I can grade the assignment on its own merits and still take into account the fact that the student did not demonstrate good academic habits.
