Last year during remote learning my APCSA course overall did not go well. Although we just barely finished the material, many of the students were left very confused and the AP scores reflected that. The issue stems from the fact that we had less than 50% of our usual class time together on zoom. I felt rushed to finish the curriculum and didn’t do many of the small things that help students understand the content. I also struggled to find time to both present the content and give students time to work on coding exercises with support. Most of the students at my school tend to not do homework so the loss of class time really hurt us. If I could go back in time I would slow down, forget about trying to finish the AP curriculum, and just take it one lesson at a time and make sure that the students have enough content before they start coding. Better if we cover half of the material but they learn it well than 100% of the material and no one knows what’s going on.

Some of my best teaching moments are when students figure out problems themselves either for their own work or for each other. These past couple of months during the Covid surge many students were home in quarantine. One student in quarantine asked me to look at a problem he was having and I was too tired and didn’t want to deal with it. So I told him to post his issue on Google classroom and offered the students in person extra credit if they figured out his issue. And one of them did! It was actually a pretty tricky problem that I didn’t even pick up on myself. This is showing me that my students are developing pretty decent debugging skills.
