One of my core differentiation strategies is self-paced learning. This is a differentiation tool for ability as well as simply the pace that different students need to take in information. Students with higher level skills can move quickly, complete more lessons, and have a chance to do more advanced work at the end of a unit or semester. Students who need more support can move more slowly and complete classwork for homework if they want full credit. There is no grouping required for this strategy although students can be paired for select lessons. To assist with implementing self-paced learning I utilize prepackaged curricula such as codeHS and CSAwesome. These tools have the advantage that students can always use them as reference and those who need more time to absorb content can rewatch/re-read the material whenever they need to.

A second differentiation strategy is different starting points for a project. The goal is to differentiate for students with different abilities or provide students who have missed a significant portion of the material a chance to accomplish a task without having to go over all previous lessons (this has been especially useful this year with the unpredictability caused by the Covid surge). For a typical project I may provide 3 levels of starter code: A blank version where they have to follow instructions from a document, a version with some comments, and a fill-in-the blank version with much of the code completed. Just as the first strategy, there is no grouping required.

A third strategy, and one that has also been particularly useful this year, is recording videos to guide students through lessons. This strategy is useful when students are ELLs or have reading-related disabilities. Computer science involves a surprisingly high amount of reading and students with literacy issues often struggle with reading instructions. Unfortunately this strategy requires a significant time commitment on the part of the instructor.
